and a lot of your ugly gang there , for downright charity ; and , like the hounds
thanks in you .
"
Though the gang so broadly referred to were at the table with Scotty
epithet , though dark looks were flung at him .
you always were , have no you
no one resented the woodcutter's
" This agent has ruined the sandalwood trade , " said Scotty , addressing himself to the aroused woodcutters .
" Before he came here , a poor man could earn a f
men
few pounds ; but now we ain't any better than chain - gang
A murmur of approval from the teamsters followed the remark , and Scotty felt that he had struck a popular
note . Even one or two of the woodcutters at another table struck the board in approval .
" No , you ain't any better than chain - gang men , that's true , " said the brawny bearer of the axe , still quietly
smoking ; " it nor you never were . There's where the whole boiling lot of you ought to be still . You talk of
"
came with this
ruining poor men , " he continued , slightly shifting his position ,. so as to face Scotty " you darned fox ! I know
you - and these men know you , " pointing to the group of woodcutters . " Before this new system
new agent , you and I your rats there had the whole trade in your hands . You bought from the cutters at your
own price , and I you paid them in rum . You cheated the woodcutters and swindled the dealers , till the wonder
was that some day you weren't found chopped to pieces for
" That's true as Gospel , " said one of the woodcutters who had lately applauded Scotty . " You're an
of vampires , you are . " "
our villainy . "
Scotty and his ill - looking crew realized that the woodcutter had got the drop an them , dead sure .
infernal set
A stamping and tramping in the outer room or store suggested new arrivals , as the place was a kind of inn . All
eyes were turned on the door , where entered , one after another , about a dozen powerful fellows , in the
picturesque garb of stockriders , who noisily but good - humouredly sat them down to the large central table ,
and called for something to eat and drink .
The interrupted discussion was not resumed but a whispered and earnest comment on the new - comers
began among Scotty's gang .
" Where do you fellow's hail from ? " asked the big woodcutter , after waiting a while , and in a friendly tone .
" From Dardanup , " said one 2 of the stockriders . The whispering between Scotty and his friends ceased , the last
word passed round being strongly emphasized , " Dardanup Irish . "
There was a colony of Irish settlers at Dardanup , free men , who had emigrated there forty years before , when
the Western colony was free from the criminal taint . The families were all related to each other by
intermarriage ; and the men . of the whole settlement , who had been born and reared in the bush , were famous
throughout the colony for strength , horsemanship , good - fellowship , and hard fighting qualities .
" From Dardanup - eh ? " said the big woodcutter , with a mischievous smile at Scotty's
Agent Sheridan's new teamsters , maybe ? "
group
14. Then you ! ве
" Ay , we're going to take those teams up to - morrow , " said a strong fellow ; and then , to call the waiter , he
hammered the table with his enormous . fist .
" Why , " said the woodcutter , in his bland way , " it might be as you're the Maguire boys from Dardanup ? "
" Only eight Maguires in this crowd , " said the table - hammerer , with a pleasant look round the circle .
Scotty and one or two of his friends here gently left their seats , and sauntered towards the door .
" Don't go , " said the woodcutter pressingly ; " don't be in a hurry , Scotty ,
since you wanted to chan up
that d -- d Sheridan and his teamsters . "
man ; why , it isn't ten minutes ago
Scotty scowled at the woodcutter . " A man can come and go as he pleases , can't he ? " he growled .
" O , ay ; but don't leave the friends as you wanted to meet , just now . Here , you Dardanup fellow's , this is your
ganger your in the teams ; this is ' bass , ' as Yankee Sullivan says .. 4 This is the fellow that says Agent Sheridan
darsn't order him , and that the agent went down on his knees and begged him to drive his black ox team . "
" He'll never drive it again , " said one . of the Dardanup
men .
" Why won't he ? "
demanded one of Scotty's friends .
" Because I'm going to drive that team , " said the six - foot Australian , wheeling his seat with an ominous
velocity
" Ho , ho ! ha , ha ! " roared the big woodcutter , enjoying the fallen crest of the braggart ; " but you can't have that
team Maguire ; Scotty will make ribbons of you . " "
And the man with the axe heavily stamped on the floor in his boisterous enjoyment of Scotty's discomfiture .
The Dardanup man rose and walked toward Scotty , who sank back with so sudden a dismay that he stumbled
and fell headlong , while a waiter , entering with a tray of plates and glasses , tumbled across the prostrate
bully .