At this there was a loud laugh , and the six - footer from Dardanup sat down again . Scotty , too , was wise
enough to profit by the hilarity . He picked himself up , laughing with the rest .
a jolly tone , but with a humiliated aspect , as if he feared his offer would be refused , " let us " Came , " he cried in a j
have a drink and shake hands , no matter who has the teams . Η
" Bravo ! " cried the Dardanup , men , who were just as ready to drink as to fight .
The bottle was passed round , and every man drank with Scotty , except the big woodcutter .
Scotty handed him the bottle and a glass , noticing that he had not tasted .
" " " No , thank you , " said the big man , with a shake of the head , none of that for me . "
A few moments afterwards . of the Dardanup
one men held up his glass to the big
man of the axe .
me , he said .
& all night . " "
" Drink with
" Ay , lad , " said the woodcutter , " pass your bottle . I'll drink with
you
Scotty pretended not to have noted nor heard ; but as soon as he could he escaped from the room with his
associates . The Dardanup men ate a mighty supper , and afterwards had a wild time , in which the woodcutter
was a partaker .
Powerful and hearty fellows , full of good - nature , but dangerous men to rouse , these
their strong blood was excited by the new enterprise they had undertaken .
young
Australians , and
A combination had been made among the ticket - of - leave teamsters and buyers against the new agent of the
sandalwood trade , who had revolutionized the old system . It had come to a serious with the business , pass
and Agent Sheridan , knowing that a weak front would invite ruin , had resolved to test the opposition at once
rather than wait for its bursting
He rode to Dardanup , and called a meeting of the stockriders , who , though every one I born in Australia and
bred to the bush from infancy , had a warm feeling for Sheridan , perhaps because of his Irish name . He laid the
case before them without hiding the danger .
The ticket - of - leave teamsters were resolved to destroy the Sandalwood teams of the Company by rolling great
rocks an them as they passed through the Blackwood Gorge .
The Blackwood Gorge was the narrow bed of a stream that wound the Iron - stone Hills . In the rainy
among
season it was filled with a violent flood ; but for six months of the year its bed was quite dry , and was used as
a road to reach the sandalwood districts . For more than thirty miles the patient oxen . followed this rugged
bridle path , and for the whole distance the way zigzagged between the feet of precipices and steep
mountains .
It would be an easy matter to block up or destroy a slow moving train in such a gully . And that the discharged
ticket - of - leave teamsters had determined on this desperate revenge , the fullest proof was in the hands of
Agent Sheridan
He had considered the matter well , and he was resolved on a a plan of action . He told the Dardanup bushmen
that he wanted twenty - four men , twelve to act as teamsters and twelve as a reserve . In a few minutes he had
booked the names and settled the conditions with two dozen of the strongest and boldest men in West
Australia .
The meeting in the tavern was the first intimation the ticket - of - leave men had that their plan had been
discovered .
Next morning the teams passed peacefully through the little town , while the discomfited Scotty and his
friends looked on from their skulking - places , and never stirred a finger .
That evening in the tavern , Scotty and his men were moodily drinking , and at another table sat half - a - dozen
Dardanup stockriders . The woodcutter with the axe was smoking , as he lounged against the fireplace .
Why didn't you Dardanup boys go alone , with the others ? he asked the stockriders .
Scotty and his ill - looking group turned their heads to hear the reply .
" We staid behind to watch the wind ! " answered one , with a
" To watch the wind ? " queried the big woodcutter .
" Ay , " said the Dardanup
blows a stone as
one
відо
laugh .
man , very slowly , and looking squarely at the ticket - of - leave teamsters , " if the wind
as a turtle's egg
down the Blackwood Gorge to - morrow , we'll put a swinging ornament
e of those twenty gum trees on the . an every
weather . Just
The
square . rope is ready , and someone ought to pray for fine
one stone , " continued the giant , who had risen to light his pipe ; and as he passed he laid a
heavy hand on Scotty's shoulder , as if by chance ; " just " one stone , as
" reeve that rope . "
big as a turtle's and we eggs
begin to
" Ha , ha ! ho , ho ! " roared the woodcutter , and the shanty shook with his tremendous merriment . When his
derision had exhausted itself , he sat with the Dardanup men , and drank and sang in great hilarity over the