routing of Scotty's gang .
From that day , the new agent of the sandalwood trade was treated with marked respect by all classes in West
Australia .
IN SEARCH OF HIS SORROW .
man in worldly wisdom and NINE years crowded with successful enterprise had made Will Sheridan a strong
wealth . His healthy influence had been felt and acknowledged all over the West Australian colony . His direct
attack on all obstacles never failed , whether the barriers were mountains or men .
years
He had raised the sandalwood trade into cosmopolitan commerce . In nine y he had made a national
industry for the country in which he lived ; had grown rich himself , without selfishly seeking it ; and , in
proportion , had made millionaires of the company that employed him .
When men of large intelligence , foresight , and boldness break into new fields , they may gather gold by the
handful . So it was with this energetic worker . His practical mind turned everything into account , He inquired
from the natives how they cured the beautiful soft kangaroo skins they wore as bokas , and learned that the
red gum 3 tons of which could be gathered in a day , was the most powerful tan in the world .
shipped twenty tons of it to Liverpool .
as an
He at once . experiment . The next year he transported two hundred
thousand pounds ' worth , and , five years from that time , Australian red gum was an article of universal trade .
He saw a felled boolah - tree change in the rainy season into a transparent substance like arabic ; and ,
three years afterwards , West Australia supplied nearly all the white gum in the markets of civilization .
One might conclude that the man who could set his mind so persistently at work in this energetic fashion
gum
must be thoroughly engaged , and that his rapid success must have brought with it a rare and solid
satisfaction . Was it so with Agent Sheridan ?
Darkest of all mysteries , O secret heart of man , that even to its owner is unfathomed and occult ! Here worked
a brave man from year to year ,
smiled on by & men and women , transmuting all things to gold , vigorous , keen ,
worldly , and gradually , becoming philosophic through large estimation of values in men and things ; yet
beneath this toiling and practical mind of the present was a heart that never for one day , through all these
years , ceased bleeding and grieving for a dead joy of the past .
This was the bitter truth . When riding through the lonely . 4 and beautiful bush , where everything was rich in
colour , and all nature was supremely peaceful , the sleepless underlying grief would seize . on this strong
man's heart and gnaw it till he moaned aloud and waved his arms , as if to put physically sway -- from him the
felon thought that gripped so cruelly
While working , there was no time to heed the pain -- no opening for the bitter thought to take shape . But it was
there : always-- - it was alive under the ice-- -moving in restless throbs and memories . It stirred at strange faces ,
and sometimes it beat wofully at a familiar sound .
No wonder that the man who carried such a heart should , sooner or later , show sign of the hidden sorrow in
his face . It was so with Will Sheridan . His worldly work and fortune belonged only to the nine years of his
Australian life ; but he knew that the life lying beyond was that which gave ! him happiness or misery .
He became a grave man
denated his energy
before his time ; and one deep line in his face , that to most people would have
and intensity of will , was truly graven by the unceasing presence of his sorrow .
He had loved Alice Walmsley with that one love which thorough natures only know . It had grown into his
young life as firmly as an
1 organic part of his being . When it was torn from him , there was left a gaping and
bleeding wound . And time bad brought him no cure .
In the early days of his Australian career ! he had received the news of his father's death . His mother and sister
had been well provided for . They implored him to come home but he could not bear to hear of the one being
whose memory filled his existence , and so he never wrote to his people . Their letters ceased ; and in nearly
nine years he had never heard a word from home .
But now , when his present life was to outward appearance all sunshine , and when his future path lay through
pleasant ways , the bitter thought in his heart rankled with unutterable suffering . Neither work nor excitement
allayed the pang . He shrank from solitude , and he was solitary in crowds . He feared to give rein to grief ; yet
alone , in the moonlit bush , he often raised his face and hands to heaven , and cried aloud in his grievous pain .
t came that he must look his misery in the face -- that he must put an end to all uncertainty . At last the thought
Answering the unceasing yearning in his breast , he came to a decision .
" I must go home , " he said aloud one . day , when riding alone in the forest , " I must go ! home -- if only for one
" day . "
THE DOOR OF THE CELL .
IT was winter again . A sunburnt , foreign - looking man stood on t the deck poop a steamer ploughing with