youngs
but , with deep decreased speed past the docks in the long line of Liverpool shipping . The man was
marks of f care and experience on his face , looked nearly ten years older than he really was . From the face , it
was hard to know what was passing in the heart ; but that no common emotion was there might be guessed
to the shore . progress by the rapid stride and the impatient glance from the steamer's
It was Will Sheridan , but not the determined , thoughtful Agent Sheridan of the Australian sandalwood trade .
There was no quietness in his soul now ; there was no power of thought in his brain ; there was nothing there
but a burning fever of longing to put his foot on shore , and then to turn his face to the one spot that had such
power to draw him from the other side of the world .
As soon as the steamer was moored , heedless of the Babel of voices around him , the stranger passed
through the crowd , and entered the streets of Liverpool . But he did not know the joy of an exile returning after
α
i weary absence . He did not feel that he was once more near to those who loved him . It was rather to him as if
he neared their graves .
The great city in which be walked was as empty to him as the great ocean he had just left . Unobservant and
unsympathetic , looking straight before him , and seeing with the soul's vision the little coast village of his
boyhood , he made his way to the railway station , bought a ticket for home , and took his place in the car .
At first , the noise and rush of the train through the cold evening of a winter day , was a relief to the restless
traveller . The activity fell upon his morbid heart like a cold hand on a f a feverish forehead . But , as the sun sank ,
and the cheerless grey twilight crept round him , the people who had travelled from the city were dropped at
the quiet country stations , and sped away to their happy homes .
A man came and lighted a lamp in the carriage , and all the outer world grew suddenly dark . The traveller was
alone now ; and , as the names of the wayside stations grew more .
which he made no str struggle .
familiar , a stillness fell upon him , against
At last , as once more the train moved to a station , he arose , walked slowly to the door , and stepped on the
platform . He was at the end of his journey -- he was at home .
At home ! He passed through the little station - house , where the old porter stared at his strange face and
strange clothes , and wondered why he did not ask the way to the village . On he strode in the moonlight ,
glancing at familiar things with every step ; for ten years had brought little change to the quiet place . There
were the lone trees by the roadside , and the turnpike , and down in the hollow he saw the moon's face
reflected through the ice in the mill - pond ; and seeing this , he stopped and looked , but not with the outward
and he saw the . skaters , and Alice's head was an his shoulder , and her dear voice in his ear ,
the happy love of his boyhood flooded his heart , as he bowed his face in his hands and sobbed .
eye merry . and all
Down the main street of the village he walked , glancing at the bright windows of the cottage homes , that
looked like smiles on well - known faces . He passed the post office , the church , and the inn ; and a few steps
more brought him to the corner . of his own little street .
The windows of the Draper's house were lighted , as if for a feast or merry - making within ; but he passed on
rapidly , and stopped before the garden gate of the widow's cottage . There , all was dark and silent . He glanced
through the trees at his own old home , which lay beyond , and saw a light from the kitchen , and the moonlight
shining on the window of his own room .
gone .
But here , where he longed for a light , there was no light . He laid his hand on the gate , and it swung open
before him , for the latch was , He passed through , and saw that the garden path was rank with frozen
weeds , and the garden was itself a wilderness . He walked on and stood in the porch , and found a bank of
snow against the bottom of the cottage door , which the wind had whirled in there , perhaps a week before .
He stood in the cheerless place for a moment , looking into his heart , that was as empty as the cottage porch ,
and as cold ; and then he turned and walked down the straight path , with almost the same
crushed him so cruelly eleven years before .
feeling that had
He passed on to his own home , which had been shut out from his heart by the cloud that covered his .
and a feeling of reproach . came upon
Ways
him , for his long neglect of those who loved him . Those who loved him !
There was something warming in his heart , and rising against the numbness that had stilled it in the cottage
porch . He stood before the door his old home , and raised his hand and knocked twice .
The door opened , and a strange face to William Sheridan met his look . Choking back a something in his
throat , he said , with an effort--
" Is this Mrs. Sheridan's house ? "
" It was Mrs. Sheridan's house ? Sir ! " answered the man ; " but it is my ! house now . Mrs. Sheridan is dead . "
Another cord snapped , and the stranger in his own place turned from the door with a moan in his heart .
As he turned , a young woman came from within to the porch ; and the man , with a sudden exclamation ,