stepped after him , and placing his hand on his shoulder , said earnestly ,
" Be this William Sheridan that we thought were dead ? " and , looking in his face and recognizing him , he
muttered " Poor lad ! lad ! dont'ee know thy old schoolmate , Tom Bates , and thy own sister Mary ? "
Taking him by the
poor
arm ,
the kind fellow led Sheridan to the door , and said – –
" Wife , here be thy brother Will , safe and sound , and not drowned , as Sam Draper told us he were - - and d - -n
that same Draper for all his evil doin's ! "
came to his
long and
Then William Sheridan felt his kind sister's arms on his neck , and the associations of his youth thronged up
like old friends to meet him , and with them came the sweet spirit of his boy's love for Alice . They
heart like stormers , to a city's gate , and , seeing the breach , they entered in , and took possession . For the
second time that night , the strong ! yman bowed his head and sobbed -- not for a moment as before , but long
and bitterly , for the suppressed feelings were finding a vent at last ; the bitterness of his sorrow , sa
closely shut in , was flowing freely .
Brother and sister were alone during this scene ; but after a while , Mary's kind - hearted husband entered , a
rugged but tender - hearted Lancashire farmer ; and knowing that much was to be said to Will , and that this was
the best time to say it , he began at once ; but he knew , and Will Sheridan knew , that he began at the farthest
point he could from what he would have to say before the end . Will Sheridan's face was turned in the shadow ,
where neither his sister nor her husband could see it , - - and so he listened to the story .
" Will , " said his brother - in - law , " tha know's ' tis moren ten years since thou went to sea , and that great changes
have come to thee since then ; and tha knows , lad , thou must expect that changes as great have come to this
village . Thy father took sick about a year after thou went , and grieved that he died , hear from thee . Samuel
Draper wrote to his people that thou'd turned out a bad lad in foreign countries , and had to ran
ship ; and when that news came , it made th ' old people sorrowful . Thy father took to his bed in first o ' th '
winter , and was dead in a few months . Thy mother followed soon , and her last words were a blessing for thee
if thou were living . Then Samuel Draper came back from sea , looking fine in his blue uniform , and he said he'd
heard thou'd been drowned on a voyage from China . He went to sea again , six months after , and he's never
away from the
been here since ; and ' tis unlikely , " Mary's husband said very slowly , " that he ever will come to this village any
more . " !
Tom Bates ceased speaking , as if all were told , and stared straight at the fire ; his wife , Mary , who was sitting
on a low seat near him , drew closer , and laid her cheek against his side , weeping silently ; and he put his big
hand around her head and caressed it .
Will Sheridan sat motionless for about a minute , and then said , in a hard monotone --
" What became of Alice Walmsley ? Did she - - Is she dead also ? "
" Nay , not dead , " said his brother - in - law , " but worse than that . Alice Walmsley is in prison . "
Will Sheridan raised his head at the word , repeating it to himself in blank amazement and dread . Then he
ups stood and faced round to the two people who sat before him , his sister hiding her weeping face against
her husband's side , the husband patting her head in a bewildered way , and both looking as if they were the
guilty parties who should be in prison instead of Alice .
Had they said that she was dead , or even that she was married , he could have faced the news manfully , for he
had prepared his heart for it ; but now , when he had come home and thought he could bear all , he found that
his years of struggle to forget had been in vain , and that a gulf yawned at his feet deeper and wider than that
he had striven so long to fill up .
" In the name of God , man , tell me what
you
i mean ! Why is Alice Walmsley in prison ? "
Poor Tom Bates still stared at the fire , and patted his wife's head ; but a moment after Sheridan asked the
question , he let his hand close quietly round the brown hair , and raising ! his eyes
to Will's . ' s face , said , "
yes in
a low voice--
" For murder . For killing her child ! "
Will Sheridan looked at him with a pitiful face , and uttered a sound like the baffled cry of a suffering animal
that finds the last door of escape . shut against it .
His brother - in - law knew that now was the time to tell Will all , while his very soul was numbed by the strength
of the first blow .
" They were married in the church , as s you know , " said Mary's husband , " and they lived together for some
time , seeming very happy -- though Mary and I said , when it was all over , that from the very clay of the wedding
there was a shadow on Alice's face , and that she was never seen to smile . Draper . was a captain , and his ship
was going to India , and Alice wanted
mother , that
Very
little Alice said no more . poor
had to with him . But he refused her at last so roughly , before her
go
4. Five months after his going , her child was born , and for six months