one the poor ailing thing looked like her old self , all smiles , and kindness , and love for the little one . Then ,
day , there walked into her house a strange woman , who said that she was Samuel Draper's wife . No one
knows what passed between them -- they two were alone ; but the woman showed the papers that proved what
she said . She was a desperate woman , and , with no one else in the house , she was like to kill poor Alice with
her dreadful words . Alice's heart was changed to stone from that minute . The woman left the village that day .
and never was seen here again . But that night the little child was found dead beside the mother , with marks of
violence on it . Poor lass ! she was charged wi ' killing it -- she made no defence , she never raised her head nor
said a word . She might have told how the thing happened , for we knew - - Mary and I knew --that Alice never did
that . But she couldn't speak in her own defence - - all she wanted was to get out of sight and hide her
poor
head . Poor little Allie- little Allie ! She never raised her hand to hurt her child . It was accident , or it was -poor
someone else ; but she couldn't or wouldn't speak . She was sent to prison , and her mother died from the
blow . God help the lass to- poor
-night ! God help poor little Allie ! " And the warm heart overflowed , and
husband and wife mingled their tears for the lost one .
" And this was Samuel Draper's work ? " asked Sheridan , slowly .
" Ay , damn him for a scoundrel ! " said the strong yeoman , starting to his feet , and clenching his fist , the tears
on his cheeks , and his voice all broken with emotion . " He may keep away from this village , where the people
know him , but there's no rest for him on this earth -- no rest for such as he . Mother and child curse him - - one
from the grave , the other from the prison ; and sea or land cannot shut them out from his black heart . Her
father was a seaman , too , and he'll sail wi ' him until the villain pays t the debt to the last farthing . And Allie's
white face will haunt him , even in sleep , with her dead child in her arms . Oh , God help poor Alice to - night . God
comfort the poor little lassie ! "
William Sheridan said no more that night . His sister prepared his own old
room for him , and he went to it ; but
not to sleep . Up and down he walked like a caged animal , moaning now and again , without following the
meaning of the words --
" Why did I come here ? O , why did I. come here ? "
pray He felt that he could not bear this agony much longer that he must think , and that he must But he could
do neither . There was one picture in his mind , in his . eye in his heart - - a crouching figure in a dock , with a
thought into his brain , it would burst brown head sunk on her white hands -- and were he to try to get .
and drive him mad .
one more
pray
And how could he pray -- how could he kneel , while the miscreant walked the earth who had done all this ? But
from this hateful thought he reverted with fresh agony to her blighted heart . Where was she that night ? How
could he find her and help her ? If he could only pray for her , it would keep him from delirium until he saw her .
And he sank on his knees by the bed where he had knelt by his mother's side and learned to and again
the old associations came thronging to his heart , and softened it . The sweet face of his boy's love drew to
him slowly from the mist of years ; and gradually forgetting self , and remembering only her great sorrow , he
up his face in piteous supplication , acknowledging his utter dependence on divine strength , and
prayed as he had never prayed before . Such prayers are never offered in vain . A wondrous quiet came to the
troubled heart , and remained with it .
raised
When he arose from his knees , he looked upon every familiar object around him with awakened interest , and
many things that he had forgotten came back to his memory and affection when he saw them there . Before he
lay down to rest , for he felt that he must sleep , he looked through the window at the deserted cottage , and
had strength to think of its former inmates .
" God give her peace , and in some way enable me to bring comfort to her , " he said . And when he arose in the
morning this thought was uppermost in his mind -- that he must search for means to bear comfort to the
afflicted heart of Alice Walmsley .
From his sister and her husband he learned that Alice was confined in Millbank Prison in London , and he
made his mind to to London that day . They seeing that he was determined on his course , made no
up go .
effort to oppose him . He asked them not to mention his visit to anyone in the village for he did not wish to be
recognized , and so he turned from the kind - hearted couple , and walked towards the railway station .
Sheridan now remembered that he had brought from West Australia some letters of introduction , and also
some official dispatches ; and he thought it might be a fortunate circumstance that most of the official letters
were addressed to the Colonial Office and the Board of Directors of Convict Pris Prisons .
In the penal colony of West Australia , where there are few free settlers , and an enormous criminal population ,
of Sheridan's standing and influence was rarely found- -- and the Government of the colony was
desirous of introducing him to the Home Government , knowing that his opinions would be treated with great
a man