consideration . He began to think that these letters might be the means he sought for , and he made
mind to deliver them at once .
MILLBANK .
his up .
ARRIVED in London , he proceeded at once to the Colonial Office , and left his letters for the Secretary , and with
them his address in the metropolis . He went through the same routine with the dispatches for the Prison
Directors . Then , though his heart craved instant action , he was forced to exercise his patience , to wait until
his presence . these high and perhaps heedless officials were pleased to recognize !
one
The great city was a wonder to him ; but , in his intense preoccupation , he passed through it as if it had been
familiar from childhood . On the day after his arrival , not expecting o an answer from the officials , of whom --
the Colonial Secretary- - --was a cabinet minister , he tried to interest himself in the myriad strangeness of
London . He visited Westminster Abbey and the British Museum . But , everywhere , his heart beat the same
dolorous key ; he saw the white face , the slight , crouching figure in the dock , the brown hair bowed in
and disgrace . On the walls of the great picture gallery the gilded frames held only this pitiful scene . Among
the tombs of the kings in Westminster , he thought of her ruined life and shattered hopes , and envied , for her
sake , the peace of the sleeping marble knights and ladies .
agany
All day , without rest or food , he wandered aimlessly and wretchedly through the sculptured magnificence of
the galleries . When the night closed , he found himself -- almost unconscious of how he had come to the place ,
or who had directed him thither - - walking with bared and feverish brow beneath a high and gloomy wall -- the
massive outer guard of Millbank Prison . Hour sped after hour , yet round and round the shadowy , silent
precipice of wall the afflicted heart wandered with tireless feet . It was woeful to think how near she was , and to
touch the sullen granite -- yet it was a thousand times more endurable than the torture and fear that were born
of absence .
icy
Surely , if there be any remote truth in the theory of psychic magnetism , the afflicted soul within those walls
must have felt the presence of the loving and suffering heart without , which sent forth unceasingly silent
cries of sympathy and comfort . Surely , if communion of living spirits be possible , the dream of the lonely
prisoner within must have thrilled with tenderness when his fevered lips were pressed as lovingly to the
stone of the prison wall as once . they were pressed to her forehead in affectionate farewell .
Back to his hotel , when morning was beginning to break , the lonely watcher went , spiritless and almost
despairing . The reaction had begun of his extreme excitement for the past four days . He passed along the
lonesome river , that hurried through the city like a thief in the night , flashing under the yellow quay - lights ,
then diving suddenly beneath dark arches or among slimy keels , like a hunted murderer escaping to the sea .
Wild and incoherent fancies flashed through Will's feverish mind . Again and again he was forced to steady
himself by placing his hand on the parapet , or he should have fallen in the street , like a drunken man .
At last he reached his hotel , and flung himself on his bed , prayerless , friendless , and only saved from despair
by the thought of an affliction that was deeper than his , which he , as a man and a faithful friend , should be
strong to relieve and comfort .
It was past noon when he awoke . The fever had passed and much of the dejection . " While dressing he was
surprised to find his mind actively at work forming plans and surmises : for the day's enterprise .
At breakfast , a large official letter was brought him . It was ; a brief but unofficially - cordial message from the
Colonial Secretary , Lord George Somers , appointing an hour - - two o'clock on that day - - when he should be
happy to receive Mr. Sheridan at the Colonial Office .
Under other circumstances , such an appointment would have thrown off his balance a man so unused to
social or formal , ways as this stranger from Australia , whose only previous training had been on a merchant
ship . But now , Will Sheridan prepared for the visit , without thinking of its details . His mind was fastened on a
point beyond this meeting .
Even the formal solemnity of the powdered servant who received him had no disturbing effect . Will Sheridan
quite forgot the surroundings , and at length , when ushered into the presence of the Colonial Secretary , his
native dignity and intelligence were in full sway , and the impression he made on the observant nobleman was
instantaneous and deep .
He was received with more than courtesy . Those letters , Lord Somers said , from Australia , had filled him with
interest and desire to see a man who had achieved so much and who had so rapidly and solidly enriched and
benefited the colony .
The Colonial Secretary was a young man ~ for his high position- - certainly not over forty , while he might be still
He had a keen
younger . eye ; a mobile face , that could turn to stony rigidity , but withal a genial and even frank
countenance when conversing cordially with this stranger , whom he knew to be influential , and who certainly