was highly entertaining
Will Sheridan was soon talking fluently and well . He knew all about the penal colony , the working of the old
penal system and the need of a new one , the value of land , the resources . of the country , the capabilities for
commerce and all this the Secretary was most anxious to learn .
After a long interview , Sheridan rose to take leave , and the Secretary said he hoped to see a great deal of him
an
before his return to Australia , and told him plainly that the opinions of a settler of wealth and intelligence e
colonial matters in West Australia were just then of special importance to the Government . He also wished it
were in his power to give Mr. Sheridan pleasure while he remained in England .
There was only one thought in Sheridan's mind all this time , and now was the moment to let it work . He said
he desired very much to visit the convict prisons in England , and compare the home system with that of the
penal colony .
The minister was gratified by the request , and , smiling , asked which prison he would visit first . Will mentioned
Millbank ; and the minister With his own hand wrote a few lines to the governor , and handed the
visitor .
paper to his
Will Sheridan took his departure , with a tremulous hope at his heart , and drove straight to Millbank Prison
There is something strange , almost unaccountable , and t yet terrible , in the change that appears , in half a
century , in the building of prisons . Few people have thought of this perhaps , but it contains a suggestion of a
hardening of hearts and a lessening of sentiment . The old prisons were dark and horrible , even in aspect ;
while the new ones are light and In the latter , the bar takes the place of a wall -- and the box is often
ornamented with cast - iron flowers and other slightly but sardonic mockery . Better the old dungeon , with its
airy
hideous hive of order and commonplace gloom , better for the sake of humanity . The new prison is a cage -- a
severity , where the flooding sunlight is a derision , and the barred door only a securer means of confinement .
on the plan
For the sake of sentiment , at least , let us have the dismal old keeps that proclaims its mission on its dreadful
brow , rather than the grinning bar - gate that covers its teeth - like mils with vulgar metal efflorescence .
The great penitentiary of Millbank , is , or rather was , an old fashioned prison , its vast arched gateway sombre
and awful as a tomb . It has disappeared now , having been pulled down in 1875 ; but those who visited it once ,
or who even passed it will never forget the oppression caused by its grated and frowning portal . In the early
part of this century , the Government of Great Britain determined to build an immense penitentiary ;
laid down by Jeremy Bentham in his celebrated " Panopticon , or the Inspection House . "
Bentham's scheme proposed colossal prison , which should contain all England's convicts , and dispense
entirely with transportation . The Government , acting on his plan , purchased a large and unhealthy tract of flat
land , lying beside the Thames , and on this the unique structure was raised . The workmen were ten years
completing it ; but , when it was finished , Englishmen said that it was the model prison of the world .
And it certainly was a great improvement on the older prisons , where those confined were often herded ,
in a room , like cattle -- the innocent with the guilty , the young and pure with the
every prisoner had his or her own cell - - a room of stone ( walls , ceiling , and floor ) , with a large and heavily-
barred window . Each cell was . eight feet square . The prison was built in six vast pentagons , radiating from
central hexagon , from which every cell was visible .
in
many
aged and the foul . In Millbank
OU
The entrance to the prison , from the street , was a wonder of architectural gloom . First there was a dark
archway of solid masonry , from the roof of which , about six feet from the portal , sprang a heavy grate or
portcullis , with spear - points apparently -- ready to fall and cut the unfortunate off for ever from the world . Far
within the arch appeared a mighty iron gate , ponderously barred , with an iron wicket , through which an armed
warder could be seen an . n sentry within the yard .
"
These details were not noticed by Will Sheridan as he entered the echoing archway ; but he was chilled .
Nevertheless , by the cold shadow of the surroundings . The warder within came to the wicket , and took the
letter , leaving Will outside . In a few minutes he found that his introduction was an " open sesame . " The
governor of Millbank himself , an important gentleman in a black uniform with heavy gold facings ,
speedily to the wicket , the ponderous bars were flung back , the awful door rolled aside , and Will Sheridan
entered .
The governor was very gracious to his distinguished visitor . On learning of his desire to see the
arrangements of the prison , he himself became the guide .
came
An hour was spent in the male side of the establishment , which was an age to Will Sheridan . While the
governor thought his attention was engaged in observing the features or motions of some caged malefactor ,
the mind and fancy of the visitor were far or otherwise engaged . He did not see the wretched , crime - stained
countenances in the cells he passed ; but in every one he saw the white face , the brown hair , and the