crouching figure that filled his mind .
At last the governor asked him to visit the female prison , in which the discipline was necessarily different .
as he
They passed through a long passage built in the wall , and entered the corridors of the female prison .
Sheridan's heart beat , and the blood fled from his face , leaving him ghastly pale , passed the first iron
door . He feared that the governor might notice his agitation ; and he wondered how he should learn whether
Alice were there or not .
As he walked down the corridor he noticed that on every door was hung a white card , and , approaching , he
read the name , crime , and sentence of the prisoner printed thereon . This was a relief to him . As he walked he
read the name on every card , and on and on they went , up stairs and down , and round and round the
pentagons , until he thought she surely was not in the prison , and the governor concluded that his visitor
evidently meant to see all that was to be seen .
When the last corridor on the ground floor was entered , Will read every name on the doors with a despairing
persistence , and his heart sank within him as he came to the last .
The governor opened the door at the end of the passage , and they entered a light , short corridor , with large
and pleasantly lighted cells . Here , the governor said , were confined those prisoners who , by extreme good
conduct , had merited less severe treatment than the others .
Will Sheridan's heart leaped within him , for he knew that this was the place where he should see her .
On the doors were simply printed the names and sentences of the occupants ; and at the fourth door Will
stopped and read the card . --ALICE WALMSLEY .
LIFE .
Seeing him
passage ,
pause and intently examine the card , the governor beckoned to the female warder , who was in the
the door . to come and open
The woman approached , the key in her hand , and stood aside until the gentlemen withdrew from the door .
Will turned and read her intention , and with a shudder he put her back with his hand .
" Nos
at .
- not her , " he said hurriedly . Then recollecting himself " No , no , the prisoners do not like to be stared
Next moment , before he could think of the consequences , he turned again , and , speaking rapidly , said- -
" I
am
wrong . I should like to see the interior of this cell . "
The lock clicked back , the heavy iron door swung open , and William Sheridan saw Alice Walmsley before him .
She had been sewing on something coarse and white , and a heap of the articles lay at her feet . As the door
opened , she stood up from the low seat on which she had sat in the centre of the stone - floored cell , and , with
her eyes on the ground , awaited the scrutiny of the visitors , according to prison discipline .
Will Sheridan took in the whole cell at once , although his eyes only rested on her face . She never looked on
him , but stood in perfect calmness , with her eyes cast down .
She was greatly changed , but so differently changed to Will's expectations , that he stood amazed , stunned .
He had pictured her fragile , broken , spiritless , wretched . There she stood before him , grown stronger than
when he had known her , quiet as a statue , with a face -- not of happiness , but of intensified peace , and with all
that was beautiful in her as a girl increased a thousand fold , but subdued by suffering . Her rich brown hair
had formerly been cut close , but now it had grown so long that it fell to her shoulders . Her face was
colourless , for want of open air and sunshine . A casual observer would have said she was happy .
William Sheridan as he looked
upon
Something of her peace fell upon " her . Suddenly he was recalled to
consciousness by a simple movement of hers , as if averse to inspection . His heart quickened with fear and :
all he possessed that she should sorrow for his impulsive action in entering the cell , for now he would give .
not look upon his face . He turned from her quickly and walked out of the cell , and he did not look round until
he heard the heavy door swing into its place .
When he had walked so far from the cell that she could not hear his voice , he asked the governor what work
these privileged prisoners were engaged in , and was almost startled into an exclamation of astonishment
when the governor answered :
" They are just now engaged .
colony . "
an a
i pleasant task for themselves . They are making their outfit for the penal
" Is she -- is that prisoner going to the penal colony ? " asked Will Sheridan , scarcely able to control his emotion .
" Yes , sir , she and all those in this pentagon will sail for West Australia in the next convict ship , " said the
governor .
" We shall send three hundred men and fifty Women in this lot . "
" When does the ship sail ? " asked the visitor , still apparently examining the door - cards .