" On the 10th of April -- just three months hence , " answered the governor .
With his eyes fixed . on a ponderous door , which he did not see , Will Sheridan made a sudden and imperative
resolution .
" I shall return to Australia on that convict ship , " were the words that no one heard but his own soul .
you
" I thank Sir , for your courtesy and attention , " he said , next moment , to the governor ; " and as I wish to
examine more closely the working of your system , I shall probably trouble ! " you again . "
The governor assured him that his visits to the prison would be at all times considered as complimentary
restful spirit than he had known for ten and Will Sheridan walked from Millbank with a firmer step and a more
years .
SIR JOSHUA HOBB'S CONVICT MILL
LORD SOMERS , the Colonial Secretary , had evidently conceived a high opinion of Mr. Sheridan from his first
brief visit . He soon renewed the acquaintance by requesting another interview . In the course .
their relations had become almost friendly .
of a few weeks
Their conversation was usually about the Australian colonies , on which subject the Secretary found Sheridan
operative , to be a perfect encyclopedia . It seemed that every possibility of their condition , latent as well as
had come into his practical mind , and had been keenly considered and laid aside .
But Sheridan was a child in London . He was supremely ignorant of everything that this nobleman considered
necessary
y to existence . He knew nothing of British or European politics - - did not even know who was Prime
Minister . It gratified the genial and intelligent Englishman , on their frequent rides through the city , to impart
information and pleasure to his Australian friend .
One day Mr. Sheridan received another large official letter this time from the Chief Director of Convict Prisons ,
Sir Joshua Hobb , who , without apologizing for the delayed acknowledgment of Mr. Sheridan's letter , asked
him to meet the Board of Directors on the next day at noon , at the Department in Parliament - street .
Sheridan kept the appointment , and became acquainted with the half - dozen men to whose hands Great
Britain had intrusted the vast burden of punishing and reforming the criminal class .
Half an hour's conversation , though of a general nature , astonished Will Sheridan , by convincing him of the
stupendous conceit and incompetence of these men . They talked glibly about the weight of a prisoner's loaf ,
and the best hour to light the cells in the morning ; they had statistics at their finger - ends to show how much
work a convict could perform . on a given number of . f ounces of meat ; but they knew nothing whatever of the
large philosophy of penal government .
The Chief Director , Sir Joshua Hobb , however , was an exception , in so far as he had ideas . He was a tall ,
gaunt man , of fifty , with an offensive hauteur , which was obviously from habit rather than from nature . His
face said plainly : " I know all -- these gentlemen know nothing - - it is not necessary that they should -- I
Convict System . " He reminded Sheridan of a country pedagogue promoted to high position for
piece of special knowledge . He looked superciliously at Sheridan , as if to ask - - " Do you mean to pretend ,
before me
that you know anything about prisons ? "
am the
some narrow
" Confound this fellow ! " said Sheridan to himself , five minutes after meeting him ; " he deliberately delayed
acknowledging my letters , to show his
"
importance . "
" But Sir Joshua Hobb was an " expert " in penal systems . He had graduated from a police court , where he had
begun as an attorney ; and he was intimately acquainted with the criminal life of England in its details . But he
had no soul for the awful thought of whence the dark stream came , nor whither it was going . He was merely a
dried mudbank to keep it within bounds for a little Way
The admiration of his colleagues was almost reverential . Mr. Sheridan was informed by several of the Board- -
in subdued voice , of c course , so that the great reformer should not be put to the blush- - of his wonderful
successes in the treatment of criminals .
" They all hate him , " said Mr. Pettegrew ,
one
of the Board
" I I give you my word , Sir , that every criminal in England hates the name . of Sir Joshua Hobb . He has made them
feel his power , Sir , and they know him . "
" He was knighted by the Queen for his Separate System , " said another Director .
" Is that your present system ? " asked Sheridan .
" No , " said the Director . " At present we are on the other tack . "
" The Separate System was a failure , then I presume ? " inquired Mr. Sheridan .
" Not a failure , Sir , but it was abandoned out of regard to the sentimental reformers . It increased insanity from
12 to 31 per 1,000 . Sir Joshua himself was the first to find it out . "
" And then you adopted the Public Works System , did you not ? " asked Sheridan :