Knight
" No , not so soon . When his Separate System failed , Sir Joshua introduced the mask -- a cloth skull - cap coming
down over the face , with eyelet holes -- to promote a salutary shame in the prisoners . He was made a
Commander of the Bath for that wonderful invention . "
" Then that system gave beneficial results ? " inquired Mr. Sheridan .
" Well , there was no doubt of its moral excellence ; but it increased the insanity from 31 to 391 per
Joshua himself was the first to discover this also . " "
" He certainly deserves the name . of a discoverer , " thought Sheridan . Then , aloud- -
" And your present system is his invention , also ? "
" Yes ,
1,000 . Sir
; our present system is wholly his . We are e just now examining results . We discover one peculiarity , which
" Sir Joshua hardly knows how to class ; but he says it certainly is a proof of progress . "
" May I ask what is this peculiarity ? " inquired Mr. Sheridan .
" That within three years insanity has decreased 2 per cent , " answered the Director , " while suicide has
increased 17 1000. " per
" Sir Joshua inclines to the opinion , " said another Director , who was listening , " that this fact proves that we
are at last getting to bear closely on the criminal principle . The law is touching it -- there is no escape - - and in
despair the baffled criminals give up the fight , and kill themselves . "
manage the
There was something fearfully repugnant to Sheridan's broad and humane view in all this , and he would
gladly have escaped from the place . But the Directors meant to impress him with their ability to
entire Penal System , both in Australia and England . To secure this general management , Sir Joshua Hobb
had recently introduced a bill to Parliament .
" Have you heard , Sir , " said Sir Joshua , addressing Sheridan with a patronizing kindness , " of the proposals
made to the Government as to penal reform , by Mr. Wyville , of West Australia ? "
" No ; " answered Sheridan , smiling at his own ignorance . " I have never even heard of Mr. Wyville . "
" Indeed ! " said Sir Joshua , with a stare of rude surprise .
He is the most influential man in the West Australian penal colony . "
" I never heard his name before , " simply answered Will .
" He , perhaps , resides in a district far from yours , ?
wealthy settler from the Vasse District . "
"
many years .
Mr. Sheridan , " said one . of the Directors . Mr. Wyville i is a
band and poor ,
" From the Vasse ! " repeated Sheridan , quite surprised ; " I thought I knew every man , rich and
free , in that district . I have lived there
Sheridan saw that his importance was lessened to the Board , but , strange to say , increased to the Chief
Director , by his confession of ignorance of Mr. Wyville . However , Sir Joshua continued to speak .
" Mr. Wyville wants to introduce the sentimental idea into our penal system -- an absurdity that has never been
attempted . There is only . - way to blend : punishment with reform , sir- -by rigid rules , constant work , low diet ,
impersonal treatment ; and all this kept up with unflagging regularity for all the years of a prisoner's
sentence .
one-
course , " suggested Mr. Sheridan . " With educational and religious influences added , of c
" No , Sir , not of course , " said Sir Joshua , in a tone of severe correction ; " a chapter of the Bible read by a
warder every mornings in a regular way , may do some good ; but these influences have been overrated -- they ,
are
e of the sentimental School . The quality that is absent in the criminal class is order , Sir , order ; and this can
best be supplied by persistent and impersonal regularity of work , meals , exercise , and sleep . "
" You subject all prisoners to the same course . of treatment ? " asked Sheridan .
" Precisely , " answered Sir Joshua . " Our system is the measure of normality , Sir . We make the entire criminal
or , abnormal class pass through the same process of elevation , and try to reach one standard . "
Mr. Sheridan would have asked what the standard was , and how many ! had reached it , and what had become
of those who had failed to reach it , who had sunk under the Draconian yoke ; but he thought it prudent to
keep the questions back .
" Suppose a youth commit a first offence , " he said , " or an hitherto respectable and industrious commit a crime
in a moment of passion - - will you treat him as if he were a professional criminal ? "
" Precisely , " repeated the eminent reformer ; " "
our system regards criminality . as a mass , and ignores its
system is the grades . This is our leading idea , sir - - uniformity and justice . The criminal body is diseased -- our-
cure , sir , physician and cure in one . "
Accustomed to say
"
the word he meant , Will Sheridan could hardly restrain an i indignant comment . " Confound
the man , " he thought , " he would take a hundred men , with as many diseases , and treat them all for the
cholera . " He concluded that Sir Joshua would have earned distinction as a torturer as well as a reformer , but