he did not say so .
Directors of Prisons .
As
soon as possible he ended the conversation , and withdrew from the |
presence of the
" Lord help the convicts ! " he thought , on his way to the hotel . " No wonder they . are eager to be sent to the
penal calany . "
MR . WYVILLE
AT the hotel , Sheridan found a note from Lord Somers requesting him , if disengaged , to call upon him that
afternoon . Half an hour later , he and the Colonial Secretary were riding together towards the West End .
" By the way , Mr. Sheridan , " said Lord Somers , " there is a gentleman in London I want you to meet , who knows
a great deal about the Australian colonies , and especially about the West . He is our chief adviser on the
proposed reform of the Penal System . "
Indeed said Sheridan , interested at once . This is the second time to - day , I surmise , that I have heard of him . Is
his name Wyville ? "
" Yes , do you ! know him ? "
" No , " answered Sheridan ; " I have never heard of him . Sir Joshua Hobb does not like his reformatory ideas- -
which inclines me to think Mr. Wyville must be a superior man . "
Lord Somers
are
laughed . : " Sir Joshua Hobb is , indeed , a strong counterblast , " he said , " by nature , two such men
compelled to be antagonistic to each other . "
" You admire Mr. Wyville , my Lord ? " asked Sheridan .
" Thoroughly , " answered Lord Somers . " He is a most remarkable man- -a man of exalted principles and
extraordinary power . His information is astonishing -- and what he speaks about , he knows absolutely . I fancy
he has lived a long time in the colonies , for he is enormously wealthy . "
" Is he an old man ? " asked Sheridan .
may say in
" No , I don't think he can be forty -- certainly not more but a person of so much force , and with a manner so
impressive , that really one forgets to think of his age . He is altogether a notable man- -and I
confidence , that even the Prime Minister has more than once consulted him with advantage on Colonial
affairs . "
" You interest me
We are
exceedingly , " said Sheridan . " Such , men are not common in Australia '
beginning to think otherwise , " laughed the Secretary . " And yet you Australians seem to learn
everything without newspapers . I remember , when Mr. Wyville first appeared here , some years ago , he might
have dropped from the moon , so oblivious was he of the doings of the European world . "
" He must have lived in the bush , " said Sheridan , smiling .
" Why , he had never heard of the Crimean War , " said the Secretary ; " and when I mentioned the Indian Mutiny
removed from civilization-- to him , day , he gravely stared , and asked " What mutiny ? ” Are you so utterly re
one
from news , in your bush ? "
" Well , Mr. Wyville must certainly have had the minimum of society , " responded Will ; " we usually get a report ,
however vague , of what your civilization is doing . "
" Shall we call on Mr. Wyville ? " asked Lord Somers ; " he lives in Grosvenor Street . "
" I shall be delighted to meet him , " said Sheridan ; and a few minutes afterwards they stopped before a large
and handsome mansion .
Mr. Wyville was at home . A coloured servant showed the gentlemen into a rich reception - room , in which
Sheridan's quick eye noted many Australian features of decoration .
The coloured servant seemed a negro , of the common (
there was an air of freedom about him , an uprightness in the setting of his head on the neck and shoulders ,
the effect being heightened by blue - black hair , that stood straight out like a handsome and very soft brush ,
which at once attracted the attention of Sheridan .
African type to the superficial eye of Lord Somers . But
" Australian ! " he thought , half aloud ; " is it possible that a bushman . be trained in this way ? " may
He smiled at the absurdity of the thought , but was struck once more by the man's air as he turned to the door .
" Mir - ga - na nago mial Vasse ! " said Sheridan , in a low voice , - - ( " Mir - ga - na , "
"
you
I have known , " or " you belong to the Vasse . " )
a common name among
The black man turned as if a shot had struck him , and stared at the gentlemen , not knowing which had
spoken
" Naga mial wan-
" Idal - Jung nago
-gur
Vasse ? " repeated Mr. Sheridan .
bushmen
Vasse ! Guak - ha - leetch ! " answered the man , the look of amazement slowly changing to one
of deep pleasure and curiosity . " My mouth knows the Vasse ! That is good ! "
" By Jove ! " said a pleasant voice from a window recess in the room ; " please ask what was the prince's name