in his own country .
There came from the recess a handsome , well - set man , who greeted Lord Somers in a
" Oh₂
my
a familiar . manner .
y dear Hamerton , " said the Secretary , " I have great pleasure in making you acquainted with another
Australian gentleman , whom you
I will find as interesting as Mr. Wyville . "
The gentleman bowed . Sheridan liked him from the first look . An aristocrat , stamped ; with a broad , open
forehead , clear , honest .
eyes , a firm mouth and jaw , and a manner above trifles , and careless of form .
" Mr. Hamerton is a priest of the new order , " said Lord Somers to Sheridan in mock - earnest ; " he is a journalist
and book maker -- hungry for novelty as an epicure . "
The black man had remained in the room , statuesque , his eyes fixed on Sheridan's face .
" Mr. Sheridan , will you please ask his royal name ? " said Hamerton .
" Wan - gon - di ? " said Sheridan to the man . " Ngarra - jil , " he answered .
Mr. Sheridan motioned him to go .
" He is Ngarra - jil , a native of the Vasse country , " said Sheridan .
" Is this really a language , with even an approach to regular formation , or the local gibberish of incoherent
tribes ? " asked Lord Somers .
" I have not studied its form , " answered Mr. Sheridan , " but it certainly is not a mere local dialect . The same
things have the same names all over the continent , with only a slight difference between the Swan River and
Sydney -- two thousand miles apart . "
" How did you guess this man's particular nativity ? " asked Hamerton .
" I have lived at the Vasse many years , " said Sheridan , " and have grown familiar with the people . I believe the
Vasse natives are the most superior tribe in Australia . "
" You are . e right , sir , " said a deep voice behind them , " the Vasse people are the parent stock of Australia . "
" Mr. Wyville ! " said both Lord Somers and Hamerton , with sudden gravity and respect .
Sheridan turned , and met the eyes of him who had spoken- - deep , searching eyes , that held him strongly for a
moment , then passed quietly to another direction .
Never
features , the
among
eye
all the men he had known , had Sheridan seen such a man as this . The head , with all its
; the voice , the whole body , were cast in one mould of superb massiveness and beauty .
There was no point of difference . or weakness . Among a million , this man would not have merely claimed
superiority , but would have unconsciously walked through the opening crowd to the front place , and have
taken it without a word . Before him now stood three men least likely of any in London to be easily
impressed- -a young y and brilliant statesman , a cynical and able novelist , and a bold and independent worker ,
and each of these felt the same . strange presence of a power and a principle to be respected .
Nature , circumstances , and cultivation had evidently united to create in this man a majestic individuality . He
did not pose or pretend , but spoke straight the thing he meant to say ; yet every movement and word
suggested a reserve of strength that had almost a mysterious calmness and beauty :
He was dressed in such a way that one would say he never could be dressed otherwise . Dress was forgotten
in the man .
the cloth were seen , rather than the style , for it seemed appropriate that
be strongly clad
• But he wore a short walking or shooting coat , of strong dark cloth . The strength and roughness of
so 2 strangely powerful a figure should
easily His face was bronzed to the darkness of a Greek's . His voice , as ! he spoke on entering the room , came .
from his lips , yet with a deep resonance that was pleasant to hear , suggesting a possible tenderness or terror
that would shake the soul . It was a voice in absolutely perfect accord with the striking face and physique .
" Mr. Sheridan , " he said , holding out his hand , which the other took with a feeling of
not need a formal introduction . We are both from a far country , where formality is unknown ; and I have been
quite intimate with your plans and progress there for several years . "
rare pleasure , " we should
Sheridan could hardly stammer a reply , he was so profoundly astonished . He could only recall the wild nature
of West Australian life , and wonder how it could have contained or developed this important man .
" You have studied with some effect , " continued Mr. Wyville with a smile , " to have learned the language and
discovered the superiority of the Vasse tribe . "
" My life for nine years has been passed among them , " answered Sheridan ; " but the possibility of training
them to European manners
I should not have thought possible . "
" Oh , civilization is only skin deep , " said Mr. Wyville , pleasantly . " The gamut of social law is not very extensive ;
and a little skill , practised with kindness and attention , will soon enable one to run over all the keys . "
" You really think it possible , Mr. Wyville , " asked Lord Somers , " to transform the average savage into an
abedient footman ? "