" Yes , my
lord , I know it is possible- --and I have seen stranger things accomplished with little difficulty .
Refinement and gracious intercourse , even according to civilized rule , are quite in keeping with the natural
character . We assume that to be savage which is contrary to our habit ; but this is no proof of inferiority .
Degraded civilization is brutal , indeed ; but the natural or savage life is not . "
" Then , " said Mr. Hamerton , " why can't we put all our savages in Australia through your civilizing process , and
with savagery at one stroke ? " do away
" Why y not begin at home ? " quietly asked Mr. Wyville .
" Ah , just so ; ; I hadn't thought of that ! " and Hamerton lapsed into listening , with a shrug
" Have you actually civilized your savage servant ? " asked Lord Somers .
quite know " I don't think I
from the bush . I I am well served , and honestly ; and I have no
your meaning , my lord , " answered Mr. Wyville . " All my people . are Australians taken
gossips in my
household , for no one in Europe
in speak to my people - - except Mr. Sheridan here , " he added , smiling .
can
" But how have you changed the nature of the bushmen ? " asked Lord Somers , very much interested .
" I haven't changed it , my men are bushmen still . I have attempted no change whatever -- and that is the secret
success . of my It is true , I have asked Ngarra - jil and the others to wrap some warm cloth round their bodies
while we live in this cold climate ; to open the door when the bell rings ; and to drive slowly and carefully in the
streets . This was learned easily in a week or two . The bushmen are natural horsemen , trained to riding
through close woods . We have no collisions with other carriages ,. I
assure
you . Then , again , my men , being
savages , never lie , and never steal . "
" But is not this actual civilization ? " asked Lord Somers .
" I really don't know , " said Mr. Wyville .
" Ha , ha ! " chuckled Hamerton . " I really think it is ! "
" Yes you may laugh , Hamerton ; but this is very interesting , " said Lord Somers .
of their savage ways , Mr. Wyville ? "
" Have
your men retained any
" I think they have kept all their natural customs , which people in England call savage ways . They eat and
sleep in their own fashion -- I do not see any reason for imposing my way upon them , if they prefer theirs . Mine
is in itself no better , except as it pleases me . They even keep their familiar implements , if they please . "
" What , for instance ? " asked Lord Somers .
Mr. Wyville touched a bell . Ngarra - jil appeared at the door .
" Yanga dan - na wamerah , " said Mr. Wyville .
The Australian disappeared , and in a few moments returned to the door , holding three or four long and
slender spears in one hand , and the womerah or throwing stick in the other .
Lord Somerton and Mr. Hamerton examined the weapons with great interest , vainly trying to draw a word from
the observant Australian ; while Mr. Wyville took Mr. Sheridan aside , and conversed with him for several
minutes .
On taking their leave , Mr. Wyville gave Sheridan a cordial invitation to come and see him soon , as
much to say to him .
me at home almost always , " he said . " You will find
he had
" And if Mr. Wyville is absent , you will certainly find Mr. Hamerton , " said Lord Somers , jestingly .
Before they parted , Lord Somers informed Mr. Sheridan that Hamerton was a wealthy gentleman , who had
refused to adopt his hereditary title , and who had also decided to earn his own livelihood , making a yearly
division of the profits of his estate his farmers and tenants . This had earned him quite another kind of
title amongst the upper classes ; but he had gone on working in his own way , and had already won for himself
an honourable name as an author .
among
" Hamerton is a Republican now , " said Lord Somers , after a pause ; " he was a Socialist in the University . "
Mr. Sheridan remarked that he seemed quite to agree with Mr. Wyville's opinions .
any one he " Yes , " the Secretary said , " he has been much attracted to this remarkable man -- more so than to
has ever known . " Lord Somers also mentioned that the Government was about to introduce a sweeping
reform of the entire penal system , at home and abroad , and that the assistance of Mr. Wyville had been
deemed of the utmost importance .
our
" He has already reformed ≈ system at the Andaman Islands , the penal colony for India , " said the Secretary ;
" but the Australian colonies offer a profound problem . If possible , we are bound , he says , to use the convicts
not merely as slaves , preparing the way for civilized life , but to transform them gradually into a healthy basis
of population . "
y is a wide field , and a grand undertaking , " responded Sheridan , " and it is terribly needed . But Mr. " It certainly i