Wyville is an uncommon mind . I trust his views will be largely heeded I the Government . "
" He has the matter in his own hands , " said the Secretary , confidentially and earnestly ; " the Prime Minister has
asked him to draft the entire bill . "
THE UPAS TREE
In a few days , as soon as
he could do so without apparent haste , Will Sheridan visited Millbank again , and
was escorted by a warder to the governor's office , where he was graciously received by that dignitary . Very
soon ,
Sheridan adroitly turned the conversation on t the transport service , and the class of prisoners to be
transported in the next ship . The governor , who was a portly old army major , was willing enough to talk on
this subject .
" The Government has no special ships for transport , " said the governor , " we charter a large reliant vessel ,
and fit her up for the voyage . The Houguemont , which will sail in April , is now lying at Portland under
preparation .
" The convicts to be transported you select from those who are best conducted , do you not ? " asked
Sheridan
among
" No , " said the governor , " only the women . These are the healthiest and best their class ; because they
are soon released in Australia , and get married to liberated men , or go to service in settlers ' houses . But the
men who go to Australia are the opposite - -t -- they pare the worst criminals in Great Britain . They are first selected
for their sentence ; men imprisoned for life , or for twenty years , are sure to go . Next we take them for .
conviction ; we want to send away as many professional criminals as possible . Then we make the number
with strong young fellows , who have never been in prison before , but who are able to do a good deal of hard
work "
" I
presume give ·
up
re-
the Australian authorities soon this last class their liberty , and encourage them to become
settlers ? " ' said Sheridan , inquiringly .
" Quite the contrary , " answered the governor , very gravely , as if he , subordinate though he was , could see the
wrong of the system . " These men , who should be punished lightest , have the heaviest burden in Australia .
The professionals escape hard tasks , by knowing how ; but these poor fellows , being strong , and ignorant of
the rules , are
e pushed into the quarry gangs .. The chain- of Fremantle , of which you !
with these men .
-gang
have heard , is filled
Very rarely , indeed , does a really dangerous criminal get heavy punishment in prison .
rule , the worst characters outside are the best in prison . "
As a
" It is a bad system , " said Sheridan . " Does Mr. Wyville's plan propose a a reform ? "
" Mr. Wyville , " said the old governor , walking towards the door , which he closed ; then , sinking his voice
almost to a whisper , " Mr. Wyville is a man and a Christian , sir . I have heard him .
say that the true penal law
should be filled with the spirit of Christ , and that our present code had none . of it . He is going to change the
whole machinery . He knows more about humanity and reform than a regiment of your K.C.B.'s . "
The bluff old Major mopped his face with his large handkerchief . He was excited .
" Pardon me , " 4 Mr. Sheridan , " he continued . " I speak too quickly against my superiors , perhaps . But I don't do it
often ; and I think & you Australian gentlemen may have a good deal of influence in making the new law . "
" You know Mr. Wyville intimately , Major ? " asked Sheridan . " I have known him for five years , sir , " answered the
governor , " since first he visited this prison with an order from Lord Palmerston . He has done more , good to
convicts in that time than all the men in Britain - - I'm free to say that , " added the Major , emphatically . " Four
I called his attention to an extraordinary female convicts -- the very prisoner you
san the other day . She had never prayed , and had hardly spoken a word for five years after she came here .
years ago case among our
Mr. Wyville took an interest in her , and he has changed the whole manner .
" By what means ? " asked Sheridan , profoundly interested .
of her life . "
governor , again resorting to his sail - like handkerchief ; " it was done in his own way- - " Means ? " repeated the
unlike other man's any Way That t poor girl's life was saved from insanity and despair , by what do you ' think ?
By a poor little flower- - a little comman a flower he went and pulled in my garden down there . "
Sheridan was about to hear the story of this strange event , when a low knock came to the door . The governor
opened it , and there entered and stood near the threshold two ladies dressed in black , with snowy head-
dresses . They were Sisters of Mercy , who attended the female school and hospital . They had come . for their
ward keys , without which it was impossible to pass through the pentagons , each ward or passage ending
with a door .
The governor treated the ladies with respect and courtesy . He handed them their keys with a knightly bow ,
they retired , he bowed again , and waited until they bad , reached the end of the passage before he
closed the door . Sheridan who was a Catholic , was gratified and much surprised at seeing all this .
and , as