The governor turned to him with a radiant face . " God bless them ! " he said , earnestly . " They may
Pope of Rome , but it doesn't prevent them spending their lives for the love of God . "
believe in the
" Are they constant attendants in the prison ? " asked Sheridan .
" Yes , they might as well be penal convicts , for all they see of the outside world . It was through these ladies ,
and the little flower I spoke of , that Mr. Wyville did so much for the poor girl . I'll tell y
Mr. Sheridan , if you care to hear it . Just now I have to make my .
I you that story some day ,
you join me ? " rounds of inspection . Will
" With pleasure , " said Sheridan ; and they passed into one of the male pentagons .
It was a monotonous and unpleasant routine , this visiting of the wards . Will Sheridan was glad when they
entered the female pentagon , after half an hour's rapid walking . When at last they came to the short ward in
which Alice was confined , Sheridan's heart was beating rapidly .
The door of Number Four was . and one open of the nuns was standing in the cell beside Alice , who sat with
her work in her lap . Will Sheridan heard the low sound of her voice , as she spoke to her visitor , and it thrilled
him like a strain of exquisite music . In after years , he never forgot the subtle pleasure and pain he
experienced at the sound of her soft voice in that brief sentence .
The governor stood at the doorway , and greeted Sister Cecilia , respectfully , then passed on . Will Sheridan
on Alice ; but he went away happy , his heart filled with gratitude . The had only for one instant rested his
eyes
old governor wondered at the earnest warmth of his manner as he thanked him and took his leave .
When Will Sheridan emerged from Millbank Prison , he seemed impatient , and yet pleased . He hailed a cab ,
and drove straight to Mr. Wyville's . He was drawn there by a deep , pleasurable feeling of mingled respect ,
gratitude , and expectation . He felt unaccountably light - hearted and joyous . He had no actual thoughts , but
only happy perceptions . The world was changed . He did not know in what the change consisted , but he
certainly was a different man n from the unhappy stranger who had wandered round Millbank a few weeks
before .
He sprang from the cab in Grosvenor square , thinking he would quiet his excitement by walking the
remainder of the way . As he turned into Grosvenor - street , his eye was attracted by a low and elegant
brougham , driven by a coloured coachman who wore a peculiar oriental dress . This driver had caught
Sheridan's eye at first , and he was rather surprised when he recognized Mr. Wyville's Australian servant ,
Ngarra - jil .
In the carriages , sat two young girls of extraordinary beauty and similarity of face and age . They were dark-
skinned rather than " coloured , " with intensely black hair and flashing eyes . Their faces were of a splendid ,
rich bronze , warmer than the Moorish brown of Spain , and darker than the red bronze of Syria . They were
wrapped in soft furs , their faces only visible . They might have been twins ; they were certainly sisters . They
were talking and smiling as they spoke , as the brougham slowly passed Sheridan , and drew
Wyville's door .
up at Mrs
The ladies sprang lightly to the sidewalk , having thrown off their heavier wraps in the carriage . Their dress
beneath was still of rich furs , of two or three colours . They walked lightly to the door , which was held
a black servant , and entered the house .
are
The incident surprised Sheridan ; but he was little given to curiosity . " Those ladies , " he thought ,
Australian natives , and yet it seems absurd to believe it . But , then , it is no stranger than everything ,
connected with this remarkable man .
open by
certainly
At Mr. Wyville's he found Lord Somers , who had brought a copy of Sir Joshua Hobb's new Prison Bill , and Mr.
Hamerton . The greeting of all was pleasant , but Sheridan was especially pleased with the almost silent
cordiality of Mr. Wyville .
They had been conversing on criminal matters ; and the conversation was renewed .
" Mr. Wyville , " said the Secretary , " I wish to ask y & you a question I have put to many philanthropists , with varying
results : Have you ever sought , ; or , rather , have you ever found the roots of the criminali
upas tree ? "
Mr. Wyville stood facing the window ; he turned towards the Secretary , and his impressive face was in shade ,
as he answered , in a low tone - -
" Yes , my
y lord , I have sought for it , and I have found it . " "
" Then , why not announce the discovery ? Why not lay the axe to the root of this tree of evil , and let the world ,
or at least England , be freed from the criminal incubus ? "
The question was earnestly put , and Hamerton and Sheridan , he with deep interest , watched the face of Mr.
Wyville till the answer came .
Because ,
my lord , the tree of evil is a banian- - its roots drop from above ; its blood is not drawn directly from
the soil , but pours from the heart of the main stem , which you think healthy . Its diseased branches ramify