through admirable limbs , and cannot be separated with a knife . "
" You are allegorical , Mr. Wyville , but I presume that you mean- -
" That the criminal principle is rooted in the heart of society , underlies the throne - - or let me say that the throne
cannot escape injury if the axe be laid to its base , " said Mr. Wyville , speaking slowly . The nobleman glanced
nervously at Hamerton , who was smiling broadly , as if intensely pleased .
The Secretary could not give up the point just then , having reached dangerous ground .
remained silent , he was forced to continue .
And as Wyville
" My dear Mr. Wyville , " he said jocosely , " you speak today almost like a French Republican , and I fear Mr.
You mean , of course , that the law dare not attempt to Sheridan will conceive a violent prejudice against you .
suddenly suppress all crime for fear of exciting revolution ? "
" Nos ; my Lord , that was not my meaning , " said Mr. Wyville .
" Well , then , I give it up , " said the pleasant nobleman , laughing , and turning to Hamerton to change the
conversation .
" Don't you think , Mr. Hamerton , that with all the public and private money spent in charity and religious work
in n England , the existence of a great criminal class is a vastly difficult problem , and a monstrous popular
ingratitude ? "
" I I agree as to the problem , " answered Hamerton , becoming grave ; " but I do not quite see the ingratitude . But
may
I ask Mr. Wyville to read us the riddle of his allegory , or to continue it further ? "
" Pray do , sir , " said the Secretary , seeing , no escape .
"
my lien's are personal as my " My lord , " said Mr. Wyville , slightly smiling , but yet very earnest in look ,
researches have been . I have drawn no political dissatisfaction from foreign schools . I have merely sought
among the among poor
and the tempted for the dangerous and the lawless ; and I have found them , and lived .
them , and have investigated the causes . of their state . I have followed the main root of the criminal plant till I
found it disappear beneath the throne , and its lateral issues run through and under the titled and heredity
circles that ring the monarch . "
Hamerton opened his
eyes
and locked his hands tightly , as he looked at the speaker , Lord Somers seemed
puzzled , and rather dismayed ; while Sheridan enjoyed the conversation keenly .
" Do the roots spring from the throne and the aristocracy , or enter their crevices from the outside ? " asked
Hamerton
" They are boon of aristocracy , " answered Wyville , impressively . " They spring from the rotting luxuries that fall
from the tables of kings and earls and hereditary gentry . They creep from the palaces , where custom and care
are too strong for them , and they crawl to the cabins and seize on the hearts of the poor for their prey . The
" seed of crime is in the flower of aristocracy . "
" You speak in paradoxes now , sir , " said Lord Somers , interested in spite of himself .
" I take aristocracy as the efflorescence of the social and political evil , " said Mr. Wyville , now deeply moved by
his theme . " It presupposes the morality of hereditary classes . Men would not , in a justly ordered state , be
born either to luxury , poverty , disease , or crime . I do not know where or how mankind began to do the social
sum wrong ; but I do know , for I see , that the result is appalling -- that millions have evil for a heritage , as truly
as you , my
" lord , have your entailed estate . "
" But how can this be changed or bettered , my dear Mr. Wyville , except -- by the spread of charity and religion
among the wealthy ? " asked the
peer .
means the " Ah , pardon me , ; I consider these things from another standpoint . Charity among t y the rich simply
propriety of the poor being miserable -- that poverty is unfortunate , but not wrong . But God never meant to
send the majority of mankind into existence to exercise the charity and religion of the minority . He sent them
all into the world to be happy and virtuous , if not equal ; and men have generated their evils by their own blind
and selfish rules . "
" Surely , Mr. Wyville , " interrupted Mr. Hamerton , " you do not believe in the American absurdity that men are
born equal ? "
" I do not think the Americans mean that in your sense , answered Wyville . " I do believe that
men should have a fair start , and let the best lives win . "
" But it never can be done , " said Lord Somers .
every generation
" It has never been tried , I think , except by fanatics or philanthropic charity - mongers , who have done more
harm than good . The good shall not come
the poor had better remain poor for another cycle than be raised by charity , and so pauperized and
from the stooping of the rich , but from the raising of the and poor ,
degraded . "