" How would I you begin the improvement , had I you absolute power ? " asked Mr. Hamerton .
Mr. Wyville checked himself with an effort , as he was about to speak .
" You have led me to utter latent thoughts rather than opinions , " he said , smiling , and looking towards the
nobleman . I fear my upas roots have led me out of bounds . "
Mr. Hamerton seemed annoyed at the check , and strode across the room i impatiently .
" Confound it , Somers , " he cried , " throw off your official airs , and take an interest in principles , as you used to
da . Mr. Wyville , I beg of you t to continue ; you .
i should not only talk freely here , but I wish to Heaven you .
preach these things in Westminster Abbey-- "
could
" Let me recall the question of this excitable person , Mr. Wyville , " said his lordship ; " he asked how would you
begin the reform of society , had you absolute power ? "
" By burning the law - books . "
" Splendid ! " cried Hamerton .
" And then ? " asked Lord Somers .
" By burning the title - deeds . "
" Magnificent ! " ejaculated Hamerton
" Could society exist without the law ? " asked the nobleman .
" Not just yet ; but it could have a better existence with better laws . At present the laws of civilization , especially
are based on and framed by property-
a depraved and unjust foundation . Human law should be in England ,
founded on God's law and human right , and not on the narrow interests of land and gold . "
" What do you propose to effect by such law ? " asked Lord Samers .
" To raise all men above insecurity , which is the hot - bed of lawlessness , " answered Mr. Wyville .
" But by what means can law make poor men rich ? " asked the nobleman .
" By allowing no one to hold unproductive land while a single man is hungry . By encouraging small farmers ,
till every acre of land in England is teeming with food . "
" But men do not live by bread alone . Englishmen . cannot all be farmers . What then ? "
" By developing a system of technical education , that would enable the town and city populations to
manufacture to advantage the produce of the fields and mines . "
" Admirable ! " cried Hamerton .
" But this is revolution , " said the nobleman .
" I know not what it be called ,
all be achieved by legal reform , even under present laws . "
"
may my
lord , " responded Mr. Wyville , impressively ; ; " but it is lawful and right .
" This can
" Let me not misunderstand you , Mr. Wyville , " said the nobleman , seriously . I Would
you propose that the
estates of wealthy men be wrested from them by law ? "
" Not without compensation , lord ; and not at all unless they refused to cultivate the soil or to
tax necessary
my
"
pay
the heavy
to insure cultivation . I would do no wrong to make a right . No inherited nor purchased land
should be taken for the benefit of the people without giving a fair recompense to the aristocrat . "
" Well , and having done all this , where should we be ? " asked Lord Somers .
" At the starting - point , " answered Mr. Wyville , with a sad smile ; " only at the starting - point . At present , the level
of society is insecurity , poverty , misery ; from which spring fear , ignorance , disease , and crime . Under a better
system , the lowest point would be at least sufficiency , enough for all the human beings in the country ; and
this , in time , would eradicate much of the evil , perhaps most of it . "
" Do you think , if there were enough for all , there would not still be some who would steal ? " asked Hamerton .
" For a time there would be , " answered Wyville , gravely ; " perhaps for a thousand years or more we should
have remnants of common crime . Men have been thousands of years learning to steal , and cringe , and lie ; at
least give them one thousand to unlearn . '
" But if it take so long , " said Lord Somers , laughing , " we :
" Not so
may as well . go on as we are .
; my lord , " answered Wyville , and as he spoke , his face was lighted with an exaltation of spirit that
made it marvellously beautiful and powerful ; " , " no man who sees the truth , however distant , can
conscientiously go on as if it were not there . Thousands of years are vast periods ; but the love of human
liberty and happiness shall reach out and cling to the eternal . Let . every . | man who believes , faithfully do his
of a pure and share , sow the seed that he has received , and in God's time the glorious harvest will come .
truthful people , whose aristocrats shall be elevated by intelligence and virtue , and the love of humanity , and
not by accident of birth and superiority in vice and pride . "
The three who heard were deeply moved by the earnestness of the speaker , whose whole being seemed filled
with the splendid prophecy . Lord Somers was the first to speak , returning to the subject of the Penal Reform